Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
'When a child is born, the
world is altered in a instant.
'A new voice is heard.
New love comes into being.
MATURE JENNY: 'Years
later we pause and say,
' "Yes, that's when it all began.
On that day, in that room.
' "When I saw that face." '
' Birth is the smallest
of magnificent things.
'And the greatest of little ones.
For the midwives of Nonnatus House,
'each one was as ordinary
and magical as the sunrise -
'as familiar and different
as a breaking day.'
~ PHONE RINGS
~ Phone's ringing!
She's in Beauregarde Street!
Do you want a lift?
Very well. If it's
going to be quicker.
MOANING
~ Oh, Lord!
~ She's in the back! We're
on our way to the hospital!
~ What name is it?
~ We thought Nicholas, if it's a boy.
I meant your wife.
Oh, it's you, Sarah!
CAR RADIO PLAYS LOUDLY
I told you at clinic you
wouldn't be waiting long.
How did you get here?
Magic Carpet Midwifery
Services at your disposal!
Mind out. I've been sick on the seat.
Nothing a bit of Flash won't cure.
Now, let's see what baby's
getting up to, shall we?
Bottoms up, sweetie.
That's superb, Sarah! Keep it coming!
SARAH MOANS
Baby's well on his way!
Police, love. Can we
do anything for you?
Yes! You can give us some privacy!
And turn that radio down!
We don't want to be reminded of this
every time you hear Elvis Presley.
Little pushes now, Sarah...
and one last push, Sarah.
SHE WAILS
Just little, little pushes
now, Sarah, just little ones.
That's it, that's it!
There's a girl!
There's a girl, there's a girl!
There we are! There we are!
BABY CRIES
Nicholas for a boy, was it?
I think Nicola might
be closer to the mark!
It's a girl? I had a girl?
You certainly did!
I reckon she's going to be a blondie.
Like you.
And blondes have more fun! They do.
Ain't that right, nurse?
Absolutely.
What in the name of goodness
are you playing at?
All we can hear out there is you crashing
and banging. It's like Tin Pan Alley!
We anticipate a newcomer.
And there is neither cake nor sweetmeats
with which to welcome her!
Well, that may very
well be for a reason.
We've all seen how you stuff
the raw recruits with cake.
They're hard to come by. We don't
want you scaring 'em off!
I should think that fibrous
pottage you call All Bran
would repel them more.
If Nurse Gilbert wants my
All Bran when she arrives,
she is more than welcome to it.
It's like trying to
digest a coconut mat.
~ No cake!
~ Well done, Trixie!
~ Bravo, old thing!
We saved you some streaky bacon.
Oh, marvellous!
Born in a car!
I really do believe that was
a first for Nonnatus House.
And very possibly a first for Poplar!
I think we were called
to one born on a bus once.
And one on a platform
down the Underground.
It's all down to mismanagement, poor
advice, and hospital deliveries!
We'll see more and more of this,
unless we can persuade women
they're better off at home.
Streaky bacon?
Er, no.
Whilst I'm officially acting Matron
at the Mother and Baby Home,
I'd like to arrange some domiciliary
deliveries for the girls.
~ It would be so much easier for them.
~ Nurse Noakes, you'll never find me
condemning any girl who's started
her life on the wrong foot.
But are you sure you're
doing the right thing,
giving over months
of your life to them?
There's a flat comes with the job,
and it means Freddie can live
in the country for a while.
He really has turned into quite
the Mr Chesty over the winter.
It's not for ever! Just until the
council find a permanent Matron.
I think you're being
compassionate, sensible,
and bold in equal measures.
There can be no better way
to start any enterprise.
And it will be nice having Sergeant
Noakes to stay with us when he
does his weeks of night shift.
I'm looking forward to it.
Camilla. What are you trying
to do with the clutch?
I'm trying to get the biting point!
But it's bally elusive
when one's reversing out.
~ Do you need me to drive you there?
~ No, I don't!
Your shift starts in half an hour. I'm not
needed at Astor Lodge until lunch time.
Well, just turn the key in the
ignition and say to yourself,
"Mirror, signal, manoeuvre".
The more you repeat it, the more
you do it, the calmer you will be.
Mirror. Signal. Manoeuvre.
Hop over. I'll get you to the
far side of the Commercial Road.
A bientot!
Goodbye.
~ God bless you.
~ Bye, Chummy!
HORN BEEPS
Sister Monica Joan, whatever
are you doing?
You say that in a tone
of such surprise.
As though you are not accustomed
to seeing me gainfully occupied.
But you don't need to
carry out menial tasks.
There are others that will do
that. You've earned your rest.
I did not rest when I was young and
I was ridden all the stronger by it.
The young will not be
tempered as we were.
They have an electric carpet
sweeper in the Mother House.
I fear what we will find in
the girl who comes to join us.
Sister,
I think perhaps you are confusing
the new midwife with Nurse Miller.
She has gone to Chichester
as a postulant.
But you said she would come back.
And she will.
Before I took the veil,
my mama and I would on occasion
take tea at an hotel in London.
The name escapes me now
but perhaps that does not matter.
It had a door... that revolved.
And it seemed to me
the whole world passed through it,
no face the same, always spinning.
Like figurines in a music box.
The visages became quite blurred.
It can be unsettling, to see
friends replaced by strangers.
But everyone is welcome here,
and all must be cherished.
Remember what St Benedict said?
Do you think I have room enough in
my head for every utterance of his?
No.
But I don't doubt you know
his teachings in your heart.
I say! I'm awfully sorry.
Where have you come from, then,
Princess? Buckingham Palace?
No. Liverpool. I was looking for
somewhere called Nonnatus House.
You visiting the sisters?
Here you are.
Give them these from me.
Er, top of this street, turn
left, then left again.
You're to be commended for the way you've
filed everything alphabetically,
but we have some post-natal mothers
who require a double appointment -
one for themselves and one
for, er, baby's vaccinations.
A single list isn't enough.
I think we're being
invaded, Mrs Turner.
~ Gangway!
~ Just pop over and see
if Nurse Mount needs any help
with the developmental records.
I'm sorry, dear, but we don't
allow prams in the hall.
We've had too many coming in
with dog dirt on their wheels.
Well, whose is that pram over there?
Mine. And its wheels are clean.
So's these! Anyway, I've
got firewood on the bottom.
Somebody might nick it.
Well, just this once.
Where's your mother?
Working. I've come to get the
milk tokens and the orange juice
for me baby sister.
Aren't you lucky, having
such a kind big brother?
What name, please?
Gary Teeman.
I meant your baby sister.
Coral. C-O-R-A-L. Like
what you get in the sea.
That's pretty!
Me other sisters are called
Marcy and Jacquetta.
Our mum says a pretty
name costs nothing.
Your mum's quite right.
CHILDREN CHATTER
~ Oh, Sorry!
~ Careful, ladies!
Oh!
Oh, goodness.
Hello. I'm Barbara Gilbert.
~ There is no-one here to entertain
you. They are all abroad.
~ Abroad?
They are like Ariel himself - they
divide and burn in many places.
I was told to ask
for Sister Julienne.
She is in attendance at the clinic,
for our tasks are too many
and our pairs of hands too few.
Do you suppose I'm expected
there? I'm the new midwife.
You will not find cake there,
if that is what you seek.
I venture to suggest that
you return at nightfall.
I am not trusted to
entertain strangers.
I trust you.
I'm new.
I spent all day on a train sitting
in the guard's van with my bike.
And I arrived at Euston
late, and then I got lost.
And now everything I own in the
world is lying on the pavement.
I need your help.
And some dogs are coming.
Put down the bananas. They are
superfluous to the situation.
DOG BARKS
No!
Stop it! Come back here.
No, bad dog! Very bad dog!
Very bad dog.
Excuse me, excuse me.
Excuse me.
Bring it back.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no!
CHILDREN LAUGH
Thank you.
I found the paperwork for baby Coral,
though there's none for
the other children.
Her mother hasn't brought
her to clinic for months -
I checked the records.
I also think Coral might
have a touch of impetigo,
but it's time for me to give
my talk on feeding baby.
You pop off. Leave these two to me.
Right then, young man.
Courtesy of the National Health,
one week's worth of milk tokens,
and a lovely bottle of rosehip syrup.
Haven't you got any orange juice?
Rosehip syrup's lovely.
There are just as many vitamins in
this as there are in the orange juice.
~ They put them all in in the factory.
~ Fair enough.
If I put these outside for the
milkman, would he just leave milk?
That's the drill.
We haven't got one of those baskets.
The metal ones they put the milk in.
If you put the tokens on the step,
I'm sure the milkman
will get the message.
Is all this free?
Yes. Do take something home for
your mother, if you'd like.
Thanks very much.
Gary, would you mind waiting
here a little bit longer?
I'd like doctor to
have a look at Coral.
Is she sick?
No.
She's just got a little
rash next to her nose,
which might be caused by
germs getting into the skin.
You wait here until the
doctor calls your name.
Okey dokey.
Oh, here. Can you manage?
Let me help you.
Nurse Gilbert? Welcome.
I'm Sister Julienne.
And obviously you've
met Sister Monica Joan.
You will take tea before
you start your tasks?
I should like to say,
"Please, assert your
preference. Indian or China?"
But there is only Typhoo.
Should I have come in uniform?
I would have changed, but there was
a bit of trouble with my luggage.
There's nothing left for you to
do today. Everything's in hand.
As many of you may be
aware, some months ago
Dr Turner and I adopted a baby girl.
I was a midwife before I married
and I'm here to share some
of my own experience
with regard to mixing formula and
sterilising bottles and so forth.
We would always encourage
you to breast feed,
~ but in some cases it simply isn't possible.
~ Excuse me.
I've been reading a book that
says breast milk should be
a baby's only form of nourishment.
Really? Who wrote that?
An American called Dr Spock.
Americans are foreign.
They do it all different!
You probably can't even get Carnation
evaporated milk over there.
I was reared on the stuff.
My baby's getting the same.
I was actually going
to talk about Carnation.
It makes a splendid
topping for dessert
but these scientifically developed
formulas are much more suitable.
But Dr Spock says it isn't
just about the milk.
It... the act of feeding
is just as important.
He says putting the baby to the breast
helps the mother to bond with it.
~ Bond?
~ Well... love, I suppose.
I'm sure nobody here feels they'll
love their baby any less just
because it's fed by bottle.
I'm just saying what he says.
And what Sister Evangelina says.
She always says "Breast is best".
She said it when I was pregnant with
my first and my second and my third.
You're obviously very
experienced, Mrs...
Wimbish. And I'm not. I...
I lost all three. This one...
This one's my big chance. And
it might be my only chance.
And that's why I want
to get it right.
BABY CRIES
Where've you been?
Doing this and that. You look nice!
I have to dress smart for work.
You fancy fishcakes when I come home?
Coral don't like fishcakes.
Well, she'll be asleep, won't she?
You've earned a fishcake if you
want it, my little soldier.
Our key's on the string. Just
reach in through the flap.
I did take Mrs Wimbish to
one side after the class
but she was still very anxious,
even after we'd had a chat.
Timothy, I wish you'd use
the waste-paper basket.
We don't want pencil shavings
in our rissoles.
Fretting about feeding is as much
an outlet for her other worries
as a genuine concern.
Did she really lose three babies?
Yes, all before six months.
I'm letting her have weekly check-ups
in the hope it'll put
her mind at rest.
I'm not sure it isn't
causing more anxiety.
She's fretting about everything.
Even feeding - and all that Dr Spock
talk upset some other mothers.
Breast-feeding isn't always easy.
I've seen women in such
pain with mastitis,
or struggling to keep up a routine
when they have other little ones.
What about the risk of infection?
That's why I was giving the class.
Feeding a baby from an improperly
sterilised bottle is very risky.
No, I meant what about the antibodies
that mothers pass on in their milk?
Breast-fed babies have been found
to have significantly fewer
bacterial colonisations
of the alimentary tract.
How do you know that?
I read it in The Lancet.
Your room has been aired but
it was unoccupied for a while
so it might smell a little damp.
It smells just like home to me.
We've got wet rot and
dry rot in our vicarage.
Oh, of course. Your father
is a... a clergyman, isn't he?
We might occasionally have a male
police sergeant lodging with us.
So you might want to make sure
that you wear your dressing gown
when you go to the bathroom,
which is just along there.
Are you sure this is allowed?
Well, I'm allowing it. I am
Acting Sister every Tuesday.
Besides, we can't possibly leave
you on your own on your first night.
Gosh, Cinzano Bianco!
We're branching out.
And it won't be Bianco for very long
because I'm putting some
rosehip syrup in it.
Are you sure?
Oh, Patsy! We can't give
it away at the clinic.
You'd think people were
paying, they're so picky!
Is it alcoholic?
Bianco?
Not really. It's more like
a sort of fortified wine.
Oh. That'll be all right.
I've had Sanatogen tonic
wine quite a few times.
And this is just as good for you.
It's absolutely full of vitamins.
Chin chin!
BABY CRIES
Coming. I won't be a minute.
Now then. I think we
need some more music.
This one, Barbara,
is especially for you.
This is Billy Fury and
he's from Liverpool.
My boyfriend can't stand him.
You got a boyfriend, Trixie?
Yes, but he's a curate.
Forever being distracted by
parishioners and good works.
It's an occupational hazard.
I'm sorry, Trixie, but I'm with
Tom on the topic of Billy Fury.
He sounds as though he's singing
at the bottom of a well.
How on earth is one supposed
to dance to it?
Well, you do a sort of
slow foxtrot. Like this.
Do you know, I haven't
seen Tom for five days?
Strictly entre-nous,
if he doesn't start putting a bit
more effort into this romance,
it's all just going to fizzle out.
And I'll be left on the shelf.
No! No, that won't happen.
You're too nice.
Just you wait and see.
Meanwhile, poor Patsy hasn't
got a chap at all.
BARBARA GROANS
We'll be able to start the Ornament
Society For Girls On The Shelf,
and be the president
and founder members.
Fetch the wastepaper basket!
No, don't! It's made of wicker.
Oh, my good giddy aunt!
Bathroom's just there.
Oh, dear.
Oh. Oh, goodness.
BARBARA MOANS
There's only one way
this is going to end.
I'd get a bit of shut-eye, if
I were you. I'll man the decks.
~ BARBARA VOMITS
~ And the mop.
Nurse Franklin? What are you up to?
I'm looking for a milk crate.
I could've sworn I'd
seen one in here.
Come here. You'll get everything
in a right two and eight.
And there's rats in here.
You don't want them nibbling
at your nylons.
Here. There you go.
It's got a little dial
on it and everything.
What do you mean, she ate
one of those green crisps?
She had some potato crisps with her
sandwich on the train yesterday
and said some of them
were quite discoloured.
I've a good mind to write to
the manufacturer. The poor girl
was sick as a pup till 3.00am.
I know! I heard. It would
put you off crisps for life.
Let her rest for the morning.
And give her some milk of magnesia.
That one's empty.
So it is.
SHE GROANS
Oh!
~ Morning, darling.
~ Good morning.
We meet again!
Of course. How could I forget?
Any special deliveries today?
I do deliveries most days.
And they're always special.
Do you know anything about
the family who live here?
That flat's been empty about
three months, I reckon.
Looks like an eviction,
the way it's boarded up.
But they never ordered
milk in any case.
Trixie!
Tom!
I don't want to make you late
but can I ask you something?
♪ They tried to tell
us we're too young
♪ Too young to really be in love
♪ They say that love's a word
♪ A word we've only heard
♪ But can't begin to know
♪ The meaning of
♪ This love will last
♪ Though years may go
♪ And then some day they may recall
♪ We were not too young at all. ♪
Lovely to see you. Bye.
Afternoon. My mum sent
me for the milk tokens.
The name's Teeman.
Oh, yes. You're down
for two pints a day.
Tell your mother to be sure
to put them out each morning.
Thanks, Nurse.
He leaves a bit of an aroma
in his wake, poor little tyke.
Lucky that will soon
be a thing of the past,
with the new housing
and indoor bathrooms.
I didn't notice.
I think the only indoor bathroom
in my father's parish was ours.
Oh, well done.
You managed to get rid of quite
a lot of rosehip syrup.
I told them all I drink it
myself and really like it.
When did Gary Teeman come in?
A minute or two ago.
I put a note on the list, Barbara!
You were supposed to send
for me if he appeared.
Oh...
Trixie!
Afternoon, Reverend!
Afternoon.
Please be advised I had every
intention of kissing you
when we first met.
And I had every intention
of letting you.
Scotch egg?
You're like a sort
of angel sometimes.
SHE GIGGLES
I've looked all over Poplar for
your little pram-pushing friend.
Gary?
There are no Teemans on the Cradle
Roll, and none at the school.
~ It's as though they've vanished.
~ And we can't let them.
He was putting on such
a brave face, Tom.
I know what that looks like.
And I know what it feels like.
I know, because I did it
when I was a child myself.
Besides, the baby had
impetigo. I'm sure of it.
BABY CRIES
Marcy, don't worry. I'm
just getting the key.
BABY CRIES
Don't worry. I'm not going anywhere.
Don't worry. I'll think of something.
KNOCK ON DOOR
Sit down, Sister.
I've decided that erm,
Nurse Gilbert will benefit from
a few days at the Maternity Home.
The routine will remind her of
hospital, on a more intimate scale.
They're meant to be trained
when they come here.
She is trained, and qualified.
She just... lacks experience.
Well, the Maternity Home can
have her with my compliments,
keep her for as long as they like.
And I've changed the roster
so that you can go there too,
keep an eye on her.
As long as our patients don't
suffer, I won't argue.
It... it's not really the patients'
suffering that concerns me
at the moment, Sister. It's yours.
I'm not suffering. Whatever
gave you that impression?
You push your food away
from you at mealtimes.
You've been dosing yourself
with Milk of Magnesia.
And today you put your hand
to your back in chapel
when we stood to pray.
It's a touch of lumbago. Not getting
any younger, no more than you are.
There's age and there's
illness, Sister.
I would like you to make
an appointment with Doctor.
To set all our minds at rest.
Have I ever failed
to fulfil my duties?
Have I ever failed a mother in
delivery, or my Sisters in Christ?
~ No, never.
~ In which case
I suggest you find something else
to tie yourself in knots about!
Like the state of this building.
It's Nonnatus House that's
got dry rot, not me.
Am I supposed to teach you
to use hand signals as well?
Sorry, Sister.
I wasn't best pleased with the
way your gabardine was flapping.
You are a midwife not
a can-can dancer.
BABY CRIES
Morning, buddy. You're
up with the lark.
~ What's a lark?
~ It's a type of bird.
Do you get 'em in London?
Well, maybe in parks.
Larks in the parks, eh?
Jacquetta!
Fetch a cup.
Fetch a cup and bring it to the door.
Hold it up, Jackie. Hold it right up.
Hold it up, Jackie.
Mrs Wimbish? There's something wrong.
There's definitely something wrong.
~ She's been awake since four o'clock this
morning. We think she's having contractions.
~ Sit down.
~ I'm only seven months! I can't have it now!
~ I'll fetch Doctor.
This is how the others
started, George.
It's how they ended, too.
They came too soon.
Your contractions weren't regular
and they seem to have petered out.
I think we should pop you into bed
here, keep you under observation,
and then transfer you to the
London if things start moving.
Will they start moving? Can't
you do anything to stop it?
The most important thing
for you both is rest.
~ And er...
~ Anything else?
~ A box of the Dairy.
~ Dairy box?
~ Yep.
~ Is that it?
~ That's it, thank you.
Lovely, thanks very much.
Thank you. Thank you.
Oi! Oi! Come here! Come here, you!
Oi! Come here, you
thieving....! Come here!
Come here!
Come here, you.
~ Come here! Come here!
~ Get off me!
Yes, so you can come back tomorrow
and rob me blind again, eh?
Luncheon is served!
Did you make that?
No. But I'm supervising
the orderly. She's new.
Aren't you lucky?
~ I daren't tell you what I do for a living.
~ Oh?
I'm a Domestic Science teacher.
Stay calm, Colette. Stay calm.
Have you been practising
your breathing exercises?
Sister Evangelina!
Get in there, you.
Got one here, Sergeant
- wants teaching a lesson.
And if you don't, I will!
~ What's he done?
~ Robbed me shop.
Rich Tea? You must
have been starving.
Fully dilated.
I called the Flying Squad.
I told them a premature baby
at 33 weeks is expected
and they're on their way.
She might deliver before
they get here.
And tell me where the
extra heaters are.
Cupboard off the landing,
on the left. Quickly.
It's all right, Colette.
Baby's coming very fast,
which is never a picnic.
But on your next contraction, you're
probably going to feel the need to push.
~ No, no, no, I try to want
to keep him where it's safe.
~ That's it.
Watch where you're walking, Nurse!
That's it, Colette!
Yes, come on!
Ah, that's the girl, that's the girl!
SHE GASPS
How much longer?
Well, the next contraction,
if you can keep this up.
Come on, now, come on, now.
Ah, this is it!
Yes, yes - come on!
Yes!
SHE LAUGHS
You have a daughter.
SHE GASPS
Mucus extractor.
Is everything all right?
~ Come on, young lady.
~ What's wrong?
Wakey-wakey! Rise and shine.
BABY CRIES
Can I see her?
Just here.
Oh, my love.
We couldn't wait a moment
longer, could we?
Spontaneous vaginal delivery,
33 weeks gestation.
Airways cleared and
breathing without help.
Where are they taking her?
You leave them to their job,
and we'll get on with ours.
BABY CRIES
Nurse.
Nurse, you're not here to assist
them, you're here to assist me!
Come here, stand here. Here! Stand
there! Give the mother some privacy!
I thought you might fancy a cuppa.
Seeing as how you brought
some biscuits with you.
They weren't for me.
Not even one of them?
I don't get hungry. But
my baby sisters, they cry.
They can't wait like I can wait.
Wait for what, Gary?
Mum.
She'll bring us chips and
stuff, when she comes back.
Back from where?
She goes out.
That's no good, is it?
When she goes out, how
long is she gone for?
Only a night. Or two sometimes.
It's like she says,
everybody has to have something
that makes them happy.
~ Come here.
~ Don't come near me! Don't
you bloody come near!
~ Why not, son?
~ Because I know how bad
I smell. And I'm ashamed.
It's all right, son. It's all right.
It isn't. And you wouldn't
say that, if you knew.
Knew what, Gary?
Why can't I go with her?
Baby's going to need to
be very carefully nursed
and kept warm in an incubator,
on the premature baby ward.
I keep hearing that little cry.
Keeps replaying in my head,
like the chorus of a song.
Well, that's something, isn't it?
It's all I've got.
Get it open.
~ What a stink.
~ FLIES BUZZ
Let's get some light in here.
It's all right, everything's
fine. It's OK. Shh, shh.
~ What do we do, Sarge?
~ Get the WPC. And bring their brother in.
Bring the boy.
I'm hungry.
I'm sorry.
I'm hungry, Gary.
Are you cold?
Here.
It'll all be all right now.
BABY CRIES
Hello, Coral.
Take Gary back to the car.
Come with me, luvvie.
Take our baby sister.
Sh, sh, sh, sh, sh.
It's OK. Sh.
When the woman who did this to
her children crawls back here,
you're to arrest her for neglect.
Let's get her downstairs.
Come on. This way.
Would you let me see
what it is, Jacquetta?
I won't take it from you.
BABY CRIES
She's severely dehydrated
and running a fever.
There are bruises on
Jacquetta's shoulder.
I think somebody has shaken her.
They both have fleas. And there's
a cigarette burn on Marcy's foot.
~ Oh, Jesus.
~ Do you need a clean nappy?
No. We need an ambulance. She'll
need intravenous antibiotics
and possibly skin grafts.
Nonnatus House. Midwife speaking?
'Nurse Franklin?'
The doctor asks if you can send
two nurses on the district roster
over to the surgery. We've had a
neglect and cruelty case brought in.
'We're having to get the
cleansing station opened.'
The cleansing station?
Is it really that bad?
I shall accompany you.
It's not necessary.
Once the cleansing
stations never closed.
We were there so often,
ridding the most wretched of
whatever filth encrusted them.
It was never pleasant work, but that
it was necessary was not in doubt.
It will not shock me.
And it is work that I can do.
This young fellow needs to
be kissed and held also.
But I do not think you can help him,
unless you give me that package
you're taking such good care of.
I've spoken to Social Services.
They said there are no
emergency foster parents
who can take all three tonight.
I have retrieved the
item she has cherished.
~ It appears to be some species of condiment.
~ Bisto.
Sweetie. Have you been eating
the stuff in that packet?
I was hungry.
Well!
It's not quite Vidal Sassoon, but
I'm sure we can make the best of it.
What's Vidal Sassoon?
It's an absolutely splendid
salon, all the way up west!
There are mirrors from floor to
ceiling and golden chandeliers,
and the minute you walk in, all you
can smell is shampoo and red roses.
However, we're also rather famous
for our shampoo and sets
at Maison Trixie.
We run quite a good service
for young men too.
~ Hello, Gary!
~ Is the water nice?
We've got rid of the fleas,
but the nits are tenacious.
Their scalps are best shaved.
~ I am preparing the razor.
~ No! No!
~ But if it's for the best...
~ People will think we're poor!
~ People will feel sorry for us!
~ Gary's quite right.
There's nothing the matter
with these children's heads
that a bit of time and attention
to detail can't cure.
We have plenty of the former...
.. and the latter costs nothing.
~ Don't turn the light off.
~ Don't worry.
No-one needs to sleep
in the dark here.
Sweet dreams, sweeties.
~ There's no need for that.
~ You do it for me
every time I get called out at night.
~ There's so much love in
this house, isn't there?
~ So much.
And sometimes so little
in the world outside.
Can I tell you something, Patrick?
You can tell me anything,
and I hope you always will.
I miss nursing and I miss midwifery.
I think nursing and
midwifery miss you, too.
Don't think I'm saying
I want to go back to work.
I can't sign up for shifts,
I can't go out in the middle
of the night to deliver babies.
But I do yearn for...
.. that sense of making
things better...
.. of putting things to rights.
So do I.
You do a hard job, Patrick.
A lonely one too.
But it doesn't have to be.
What are you doing now?
There are rules about
you and the gas.
You think me likely to
cause a conflagration?
Yes. Or blow us all sky-high!
You are in pain again.
And water will not cure
it, be it cold or hot
or sealed within a rubber bottle.
Soon you will be
disqualified from work,
just as I am by the
fractures of my mind.
You seem sharp enough tonight,
dishing out advice and toasting
your own crumpets.
See?
You are more necessary
than you might imagine.
If you do not consult a doctor,
who is to say where it will end?
Blood pressure and a check
of your stitches, Colette.
If I can give another good
report to Sister Evangelina,
you might be allowed to sit in
a chair for a bit this afternoon.
My milk's come in!
If it's not my waters
breaking, I'm crying.
If I'm not crying, I'm leaking milk!
If I lose any more liquid this
bed will start floating.
We can give you Epsom salts
to stop you lactating.
I don't want to dry it up,
this is my baby's milk.
I don't even know what
they're feeding her on.
Please let me try it, Sister.
Colette can express her milk
manually every three hours
and we can take it to the hospital
to be kept in the refrigerator
and given to her baby.
And how much time is that going
to take out of everybody's day?
My day!
I can get there and back, by bike,
in not more than half an hour.
And I can take the milk in
batches, morning and evening.
~ You always say breast milk is best.
~ Where do you get your energy from?
Oh, what sad faces.
I don't like to see sad faces.
Oh, look! What's this?
~ Shall I press it?
~ HORN HONKS
THEY LAUGH
That's better, isn't it?
You have a go, that's it.
Well done! That's a good noise!
Oh! And you! Oh, I like that...
We've found them an excellent
short-term foster home.
The children will be kept together,
can even share a bedroom.
I managed to find quite a few spare
pairs of knickers for Marcy.
You'll have to tell whoever's
looking after her that she's
not entirely reliable on
the toilet training front.
Please come and say goodbye to them.
No.
I'd rather not.
Trixie. We all meet with cases
that touch us more than others...
Gary and his sisters
aren't a case, Tom!
They're children!
And Gary was playing
the cheeky chappy,
just like I used to play
little Shirley Temple
when I was a child
and my father had his breakdowns.
You don't forget what it's like
to be putting on a show...
.. wishing all the time that somebody,
anybody who can help, will say,
"Is something the matter?"
And hoping all the
time that nobody does,
because you have so much to hide.
If I could rub all that
out for you, I would.
If I could take every
scrap of unhappiness
you've ever had away, I would.
And you can't.
But just standing here, with you,
hearing you say that, reminds
me that I've survived it.
And that others might
not if we don't help.
Now. Don't forget to tell the foster
mother about the knickers.
Good night.
You can tell me where my
kids are any time you like.
I think you'll find your kids are
no concern of yours any more.
I'll have you know I was
out working to support them.
Family allowance doesn't go
nowhere when a father legs it.
Where exactly do you
work, Mrs Teeman?
In a licensed establishment.
It's in Notting Hill
so I have to commute.
The hours are good if
you've got children.
When I'm at home,
I'm at home all day.
I'll take a statement
from you at the station.
I shall be stating that
my water was cut off,
which is why this place
stinks the way it does.
I'm on a list to be rehoused but
the council have done nothing.
Just like the doctor did
nothing when I went to him
~ and asked to have my tubes tied.
~ You're under arrest, Mrs Teeman.
You'll be allowed to speak
to a solicitor in due course.
~ I didn't ask for any of this.
~ And neither did your children.
We did our best.
We all did our best.
Is the baby all right?
Take her to the car.
~ What's this?
~ Open it.
A meringue?
With a cherry on,
and some angelica,
because I know those
are your favourite.
~ Do you want me to eat it now?
~ Not just yet.
Because what I really want
to give you is this.
~ It was my grandmother's.
~ What a... surprise.
Don't say that, Trixie,
because if it really is, it
probably means you don't want
to be my wife quite as much
as I want to be your husband.
Oh, Tom...
Every day I talk about love -
the love of God,
love divine,
love thy neighbour...
.. all love's excelling...
.. but I don't think I ever
really knew what it meant...
.. until I realised
how much you meant.
And mean.
Say yes.
Please say yes.
Yes.
You're looking very
spruce, Mrs Turner.
I'm officially taking on the
role of medical secretary.
Dr Turner is busier than ever
and the practice needs
proper management.
Seems like a reasonable arrangement.
There's certainly work to do.
I want you to make an
appointment with a doctor.
But I don't mean Doctor Turner,
I need to see a female one.
Do you have... women's
problems, Sister?
Yes. Very much so.
MATURE JENNY: 'It sometimes
happens that new beginnings
'come not at once, but at last.
'The wait is rewarded and the
fresh start can commence.
'But we can never know how
the story will conclude,
'and perhaps that's for the better.
'Baby Coral was adopted
'and her three elder siblings
were sent to Australia
'under the child migrant programme.
'They were promised a life
of sunshine, blue skies,
'and endless opportunity.
'The truth was otherwise.
'And the only consolation is
that hope made them happy,
'for a while.'
'Joy is not felt less exquisitely
because the moment flies.
'And if we can taste it,
we know that we are blessed.
Phyllis Crane, SRN
SCM. I am expected.
If Nurse Crane doesn't approve
of the way we run this ship,
we will end up sinking!
~ How many years has it been?
~ Not quite 30.
Still the pale, sweet girl
with the wave in her fringe.
You came to a decision, Louise.
I need to see a doctor!
Please don't cry.
You are perturbed.
You strive to hide it,
but you do not succeed.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org